ideas/The story of a boy and software.md, before:

Hi professors from Institute for Software Research. I'm Tony Wang, a programmer from Citigroup Services and Technology(China).
I'm so glad that I have the opportunity to apply for this program. To help you know me better, I write this PS. Hope you like it. Let's start from my first project as an intern in BASF.


### The boy's first try
I still remember the first time I wrote an independent program when I'm working as a intern in BASF. I was working in logistics department and my work is try to find accessible way to help employee work more efficiently. One of the employee told me, they need to generate a summary report each month from several excels. But there are some special rules for the calculation, and it can't specify easily as functions in excel, they had to do it by hand and it really took many time. At that time, I'm a green hand in programming with nearly no basics but I want to have try. I searched on the internet and happy to find there is an embed language called VBA for Excel. Without hesitation, I found as much materials as I can and learned them in my first week. Then I began to develop the summary report generation software. It tooks totally weeks to finish this little program, fix all the bug and cover all the corner case. I was surprised to realize I used that many time to finish a software looks simple and trivil. A simple thought came out in my mind: can it be more easy? I know I can't answer my question , but it inspires me to find the anwser! The internship ended soon after I finished the little program, but my interest in software just started! 

### the boy's last year in University
Though I have no experience on programming along with a very poor basics and it's my last year in university, I chose to learn it because I like it heartly. I believe I can do it well with hardworking. I learned OO programming, C++, Perl and R at that time.


### the boy's first real world project
After I graduate from University, I had a chance to join a startup company. Our tasks is to building a complex signal collectiong software which was ued to monitor signal sending from chip and draw scalable real time curves. The main challenge is the system has many complex multi-threading logic, complex and configuarble GUI and high demanding data integrity. It expects to take 100 Man-Months, but to win the deal, my boss decided to cut it down to 10 Man-Months. Moreover, when I did the first demo to our client using a technology(WPF,a GUI framework used to replace the winform) none of our mates know it deeply including me, the client liked and required to use it. Facing such a begining, I thought


### The boy's first industry porject


### The boy's work in Citi


### The boy's view on Software Engineering
What does software engineer 
No matter what we do, we need to first find a clear question.

Find how similar the new things we want to develop is with our existing items, and use a fluent, context-aware script languange (or a GUI) to transform our new ideas into implementation


### The boy's ideas and future plan

Commit message:

Update The story of a boy and software.md

ideas/The story of a boy and software.md, after:

Hi professors from Institute for Software Research. I'm Tony Wang, a programmer from Citigroup Services and Technology(China).
I'm so glad that I have the opportunity to apply for this program. To help you know me better, I write this PS. Hope you like it. Let's start from my first project as an intern in BASF.


### The boy's first try
I still remember the first time I wrote an independent program when I'm working as a intern in BASF. I was working in logistics department and my work is try to find accessible way to help employee work more efficiently. One of the employee told me, they need to generate a summary report each month from several excels. But there are some special rules for the calculation, and it can't specify easily as functions in excel, they had to do it by hand and it really took many time. At that time, I'm a green hand in programming with nearly no basics but I want to have try. I searched on the internet and happy to find there is an embed language called VBA for Excel. Without hesitation, I found as much materials as I can and learned them in my first week. Then I began to develop the summary report generation software. It tooks totally weeks to finish this little program, fix all the bug and cover all the corner case. I was surprised to realize I used that many time to finish a software looks simple and trivil. A simple thought came out in my mind: can it be more easy? I know I can't answer my question , but it inspires me to find the anwser! The internship ended soon after I finished the little program, but my interest in software just started! 

### the boy's last year in University



### the boy's first real world project
After I graduate from University, I got a chance to join a small startup company of my teacher. When I joined , we were facing a very challenge project. To be simple, it's a complex signal collectiong system which was ued to monitor signal sending from chip and draw scalable real time curves. The main challenge is the system has many complex multi-threading logic, complex and configuarble GUI and high demanding data integrity. It expects to take 100 Man-Months, but to win the deal, my boss decided to cut it down to 10 Man-Months. Moreover, when I did the first demo to our client using a technology(WPF,a GUI framework used to replace the winform) none of our mates know it deeply including me, the client liked and required to use it. Facing such a begining, I thought


### The boy's first industry porject


### The boy's work in Citi


### The boy's view on Software Engineering
What does software engineer 
No matter what we do, we need to first find a clear question.

Find how similar the new things we want to develop is with our existing items, and use a fluent, context-aware script languange (or a GUI) to transform our new ideas into implementation


### The boy's ideas and future plan
