### Statement of Purpose
I'm Wang zhendong, a chinese boy loves software development. Not like many students who apply for this program with high GPA, GRE and TOFEL scores, I actually got a low GPA at school and plain GRE and TOFEL scores. Even worse, I don't have a background from CS and I know very seldom things about CS when I graduate from university. But only 1 year latter after I graduate from school, I passed the competive 10% passed interview of Citigroup and became a little .Net and BI software experts there. I even won an award in this year's Citi innvovation competition with my data integeration framework out of 110 projects. Though by now I already won a little fame in my department for my techonical skills, I never forget my dream: I hope one day, I can make software development much easier than what we do today by developing advanced tools and methodology so even non-tech people can build the software they need and fullfill their good willings. 

Before I explain my dream, I want to first state some of own experiences from which I got my dream.  

### First Internship light my path to programming
I still remember the fist time I became curious about software. It's 3.5 years ago, when I work as a summer intern in BASF's logistic department. As I worked with my colleagues, I found they needed to genreate several complex Excel reports each month. The business logic is non-trivial, so they had to manually do it and huge time was spent. Once I noticed this, an idea appeared in my mind: do we have a method to automate the generation? I felt it's an interesting question so I started to search on the Internet and finally found a programming language called VBA which can automate every jobs in Excel! Though I knew nothing about it I began to have a try and to my surprise I really made it out in 3 weeks. The time consuming report can now generate in a few seconds! It's my first time to feel that software can be such helpful to help people work better. So when I went back to school after internship, I spent nearly all my time on learning programming and soon I met my first industry level project.

### First industry level project brought me to the world of software engineering
After I graduate from university, I joined a small startup company where I developed my first industry level project. It was a 100 man-months project but my boss asked me and my 2 mates to finished it in 3 months.(Of course no one told us it's a 100 man-months project until I finished it!). The whole project is very complex, which is full of multi-thread logic and dynamically generated GUI. Since client required configurable real time dashboard and interactive plot, we also had to write complex layout algorithm. My 2 mates soon quit this task and I was left to face it myself. Ladies and Gentle, a super full stack developer just borned: I had to design the architecture, wrote the code, did the test and even communicated with our client. Though it's really challenge, I thought I was lucky to touch the whole life cycle of software development. To work out program in this challenge project, I began to read a lot of books. I learned the concepts like refactor from Martin Flower's book, learned TDD from Kent's book, learn agile programming and clean code from Uncle Bob, learn the art of unit test from RoyOsherove. To improve my design, I began to learn design patterns, Enterprise Application Architecture and Domain Driven Development. To be funny, I thought I experienced all the woyrst case those authors mentioned in their books! For instance there is one time, I had to refactor 1000+ multi-thread code without any unit test in 3 days. It's at that time, I knew that unit test is really really important. Beside those mentioned above, I also read books about Aspect Oriented Programming, Functional Programming and Meta-programming.

Finally I finished the project after 9 month's hard work. The whole process let me realize that writing software is really complex but the books I read also brought me to the world of software enginerring and show me that there are some good techonology and methodology there to help us solve that kind of complexity. To learn those techonology and methodolgy better, I decided to go to an advanced company Citigroup.

### 





I still remember my first software I wrote when I work as an intern in BASF 3.5 yeears ago. It's 2 VBA program which grab information from several Excel reports and then generate a summary report  automatically. The whole process is just like an infant began to learn how to walk since at that time, I had poor knowledege and expererience on programming. Even worse, no body in my department knew how to use VBA and I had to finish it myself. Just like baby learning walking, I tripped and fell again and again, but the desire to see a workable program help me stand up again and agian. Finally, after 3 weeks, I finished the program. I still remember my colleague was so happy when I show them the final program since in the past, it took them a whole day to manually finished the summary report. The internship just ended when I finished the program but my long journey of software development just started.

After the internship, I spent my last year in university learning the basic knowledge about programming myself. After graduation, I joined a small startup company and finished a unforgotten program. The software we need to develop is an assistant tool for chip testing which needs to have dynamically GUI, good performance  and advanced chart. The program is full of complex multi-thread logic and we were given 3 months to finished it. I was assigned to finish part of independently. To overcome it I know I need more knowledge and that's the first time, I start to learn OO design, design pattern and Enterprise Application Architecture, Unit test. I also start to learn multi-thread programming and try to design lock-free algorithm and thread-safe class. Though the project postpone for a long time, I finally finished. My first industry level project finally help me realized that to develop a complex software, I still need a long way to go. So I planned to go to a big company and Citi is my choice! 

I only did one project there, but it's really a non-trivial project. In this project, we need to develop a software which collect and analysis raw data from chips. The user requires high performance, configurable GUI and advanced dashboard and chart. Even worse, the user hope we can finished it in 3 months. My product manager estimate actually we need 100 man-months but we only had 3 developer at that time.  

The days in Citi starts with challenge. Just after the tough interview I was assigned to a brand new area I had never touch: data warehouse design. So things happened again, I began learning my  

As I wrote this letter, I had 2.5 years software development experience. Though it looks not so long, I had already became the core developer in several critical program in Citi.  In this year, I became one of the main designer and developer for Citi Credit's new data warehouse, during which I developed several high performance and easy to use ETL framework. I also won an award in CSCT Innovation competetion this year for my data integration framework. (my total score rank #14 of 110 projects and I got the 3rd highest technology score of the 110 projects). Though I got a little success now, I still remember the dream I had since I began programming: I want to make the software development easier. It's for this dream that I finally decided to quit my good career in Citi and apply for CMU SV SE program. CMU is famous for its CS and SV is famous for its practical spirit. This might be the best place to continue my study on software engineering. I hope I can learn more here and I can realize my dream one day.



### My Career
I still remember it's 3.5 years ago, I met "software development" for the first time. At that time, I'm a little intern in BASF with barely no knowledge for computer science and software development. One day, my manager told me their EXCEL reporting process took too much time and he wanted me to find a way to improve it. I was interested in his requirement and soon I got an idea to use VBA, the macro language for EXCEL, to automate that process. The difficulty is, no one knows this language in my department. So I began everything myself. I spent 1 week to learn VBA's language grammar and use the rest 2 week to finish the reporting system. I still remember my colleague's happy face when they saw the report generated automatically. It's at that time I realized that software is meaningful since it can help people realize their good willing more easily.
